Robert Over
Professor Alexander Wyglinski
BliSS internship
5/27/2011
Spectral Subtraction Block
This section of the project is the Spectral Subtraction block. The main goal of this section is to improve the readability of the desired signals. As the signal in question will be obstructed by jamming interference, noise and additional signals in the same frequency range, the signal is assumed to be  unreadable when it is received.  In order to optimize the reduction of interference on the signal the spectral subtraction block has been split up into a number of different sub-blocks each dealing with a specific type of interference. These are the SNR sub-block, the Signal Scanning and Identification sub-block, and the Spectral Subtraction sub-block. The Spectral Subtraction block, that is the entire system, will take in two signals from the Antenna Subset Selection block in the form of time domain information for signals at a frequency of 905MHz. 
The SNR sub-block is designed to increase the SNR of the channel in order to increase the readability of all the signals in the channel. As the wide band jamming that will be interfering with the signal has the effect of increasing the SNR across the frequencies in question, this block will incorporate aggressive noise reduction. Once the noise in the channel has been significantly reduced the only remaining data in the signal should be the desired signal as well as any interfering signals in the same frequency range. 
The next block will identify what signals are in the channel. This block scans the frequency range and searches for peaks. When it has determined that a signal is present, it stores the signal’s information. Once the entire frequency range has been scanned, all of the signal information is sent to the next sub-block. 
The Signal Scanning and Identification sub-block, scans the range of frequencies on either side of 905MHz in order to identifying know signals that are interfering with the desired signal. Once the signals have been identified they will be subtracted from the channel. In order to identify the signals that are corrupting the desired signal the Signal Scanning and Identification block measures the attributes of the signal and compares them to ranges that specify what the signal is. This block will measure attributes such as the bandwidth of the signal, its power and its spectral density. These values should provide enough information to properly identify the signals so they can be removed. Once the signal has been identified as one of the signals in the know signal database, or as the unknown signal that is being observed, the information about that signal will be sent to the Spectral Subtraction sub-block.
The Spectral Subtraction sub-block is where the interfering signals are removed before the final, readable signal is sent to the Blind Source Separation block. In this sub-block, the signals that were previously identified in the Signal Subtraction and Identification sub-block are subtracted from the received data. This method of Spectral Subtraction involves subtracting the average Power Spectral Density (PSD) of the know signal from the avgPSD of the received channel.

avgPSD_Recieved-avgPSD_Known=avgPSD_Signal

avgPSD_Recieved= Average Power Spectral Density of the incoming signal
avgPSD_Known= Average Power Spectral Density of the known signal
avgPSD_Signal'= Approximate average Power Spectral Density of the desired signal

This system is not perfect because the received signal is never completely known. The known signal will have information on it that is unknown to the receiver. This unknown data will alter the signal changing its PSD.  This means that the average PSD of the signal must be used in the subtraction rather than the actual PSD. When the average PSD of the signal is subtracted from the received data the subtraction is not perfect. The subtraction will only be able to remove the major majority of the signal. It will leave behind undesired peaks of information along the area where the signal was. These peaks are known as musical noise. In order to remove this musical noise the subtraction of the signal must be overestimated ensuring that any unwanted information is removed. The interfering signal may overlap with the desired signal’s bandwidth so the subtraction of the interfering signal must be done carefully in order to make sure that none of the information from the desired signal is lost. Once the subtraction has taken place and the desired signal has been retrieved the information will be sent to the Bind Source Separation Block. 
Two signals will be output at the back end of the Spectral Subtraction Block in the same format as the data that was received at the front end of the Spectral Subtraction Block. Once this system has been implemented the data output should be information for only the desired signals. All the known signals and the jamming and noise that interferes with the signal should have been removed or been reduced to the point where it no longer interferes with the desired signal. As this project is intended as a proof of concept rather than a final design, the testing environment that this block will encounter will not be as intensive as in the real world. Because of this a number of the sub-blocks will not be needed. The SNR sub-block will be incorporated into the Spectral Subtraction sub-block and the signal to be removed will already be known meaning that the Signal Scanning and Identification sub-block is not necessary.

